=== 0.4.0 26/12/08

* +has_dirty+associations now accepts a :+preload+ options (defaults to false) to preload all watched assocations. Previously, this would always happen.

=== 0.3.2 24/12/08

* The #edited_<association> methods no longer include frozen records.

=== 0.3.1 21/12/08

* The #changes_by_type instance method no longer returns an empty hash under :+self+ if there were no changes to the parent record.

=== 0.3.0 21/12/08

* Added #changes_by_type instance method.
* #comprehensive_changes now returns empty sets for associations that have no changes.
* #comprehensive_changes no longer nests associated record changes under the :+associated+ key.
* Updated README.

=== 0.2.0 20/12/08

* Added #comprehensive_changes instance method.
* Added #clear_cache! method to remove all cached records from memory.
* Updated README.

=== 0.1.2 14/12/08

* #all class method is overwritten to include #with_exclusive_scope.
* Added #cache_associated! & #associated_from_cache instance methods, which perform caching for all watched associations.
* Updated README & MIT-LICENCE.

=== 0.1.1 9/12/08

* Added #cache_<association>! and #<association>_from_cache methods.
* Added predicate methods #new_<association>?, #edited_<association>? etc. to comply with documentation!
* Added DirtyAssociations::VERSION constant.

* #<association>_changes no longer includes an empty hash for unchanged records.
* #<association>_changed no longer includes an empty hash for unchanged records.

* Added #<association>_changed? method as an alias for #any_<association>_changed?, to make more sense when dealing with a singular record.

=== 0.1.0 9/12/08

* Initial Release